Last weekend, my wife, son and I traveled to Regensburg for an afternoon. The reason was because we had a couple of appointments there, but it ended up turning into a nice afternoon spent with the family meandering through the narrow, cobblestone streets of the old city center. Amongst all of the fine Baroque architecture, I had a couple of interesting encounters that I thought would be worth writing about.

The first was an older gentleman who was walking around one of the main plazas, Neupfarrplatz, with a woman who I assume was his wife. He had longer gray hair, a gray t-shirt and was wearing a black hiking skirt that appeared to be from [Jack Wolfskin](https://www.jack-wolfskin.com/sonora-skirt/1507951_6350_006.html#cid=Damen-Kleider-AND-Roecke). The woman he was with was wearing a white denim skirt.

Unfortunately, I didn’t get a chance to talk to him as I didn’t have much time before my appointment. I did look multiple times, however, to confirm he really was wearing a skirt and it wasn’t just some loose bifurcated garment that appeared to be a skirt from a distance. It definitely was a skirt.

The second, and perhaps more interesting, encounter happened in one of the grocery stores in the old city center while looking for ice cream for my son that I could buy without cash (for those who don’t live in Germany: you still have to carry cash with you because lots of places still don’t accept any other form of payment). As I was pushing my son’s stroller through the aisles, I turned a corner and was confronted by two people who, in their heels, were quite a bit taller than me (I’m 6′ 2″, or 189 cm). That immediately struck me as unusual as most women, even when they wear heels, aren’t taller than me.

Upon closer inspection and hearing their deep voices, I quickly realized they were men. Both were wearing cosplay outfits that included dresses, corsets, wigs and heels. One was dressed in a gothic style in an all black, lacy dress, black corset, long black wig, ripped fishnet tights and very high heeled platform boots. The other was more “cutsey” with a pink bob cut wig, white shirt, pink corset, short pink a-line skirt, white stockings held up by white garter straps and very high, glossy pink pumps. They also each had a full face of makeup.

In fact, they looked so feminine that if it weren’t for their deep voices and height, I wouldn’t have known whether they were men or women. Since they were just standing there and I had time, I did approach them and had a chat. At first, they were a little standoffish which I can understand, but then they realized that I, too, was wearing a skirt (I wore my [black a-line skirt from Skirtcraft](https://www.skirtcraft.com/products/tellurian/) as seen in the terrible photo above). That was the icebreaker.

It turned out that they were a couple in their early 20s highly into the [femboy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Femboy) and [cosplay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosplay) scenes. They hadn’t dressed up for any particular reason other than for the thrill and enjoyment of going out in public dressed up in female cosplay. While they both identified as cis men, they said they enjoyed breaking out of the “gender matrix” and pushing people’s limits of what’s acceptable for men to wear.

Everything about that made me excited to have run into them. I talked about wearing skirts out in public myself and the psychological satisfaction I get from that beyond just the physical comfort. The conversation didn’t last terribly long, but we did talk about our intentions with going out in public dressed in clothing from the women’s department. Of course, I pointed them to this blog which they promised to check out and whose goal they were excited about.

So if you’re one of them reading this now, hi! And also, I forgot to say how much I admire your ability to walk on those rough, uneven cobblestone streets in very high stiletto shoes without breaking a heel or your ankle!

Later, I told my wife about both encounters because she hadn’t been present for either one. She was excited about it too. Sometimes, I think she gets excited either because my excitement is contagious or because it means having a husband who wears skirts in public is becoming more common to see. I’m not sure which, I’ll have to ask her.

Either way, the main point of this post is to show that the number of encounters I have had with other men wearing gender-non-conforming clothing seems to be steadily increasing. Regensburg, for some reason, seems to be a very diverse city with lots of gender-non-conformity. I used to live in Munich, a much larger city, and am regularly still there to visit the in-laws, but rarely see much in the way of divergence from the norm.

I thoroughly enjoy seeing others feeling free enough to be themselves and the fact that we, as a society, are far enough along to mostly accept it is amazing. I just hope we don’t regress as some leading politicians are aggressively trying to accomplish. Let’s keep getting out there, being seen and encouraging others to do the same!